[Music]
hi is finally from BBC good food and
welcome to boss the basics
[Music]
here we're going to be cooking chewy
chocolate chip cookies really really
easy recipe we've got 200 grams of
chopped chocolate you can use chocolate
chips 1 egg 150 grams of sugar I'm using
half light Demerara and half golden
caster and you can just use one or the
other
we've got a hundred and fifty grams of
softened butter 200 grams of plain flour
some salt some vanilla and a bit of
baking powder the first thing we need
students need to be our butter and our
sugar together until really light fluffy
now I'm using an electric whisk for this
you could use a tabletop mixer or you
could use a hand whisk but it's going to
take quite a lot of work because we want
it really really light and fluffy that's
what's going to make the cookies lovely
and fudgy so first our butter goes into
our Bowl and then our sugar and then
we're just going to beat the two
together until it's super light fluffy
[Laughter]
now our mixtures lovely and fluffy we
can add our eggs I'm just going to crack
our egg into the bowl like so I'm then
going to add half a teaspoon of vanilla
extract
just want to beat those together to
combine
the next stage we don't want to overwork
the ingredients cuz that's how you get
tough cookies so at least we want to
bring it together just as a dough and as
soon as that's ready it's done now I'm
using 200 grams of flour because I want
cake here I want thicker take your
cookies and I'm also going to cook them
straight away I'm not gonna rest them in
the fridge but if you're going to rest
them in the fridge or you want thinner
cookies than 190 grams is absolutely
fine so in with that flour chocolate
cool through the teaspoon of salt and
our baking powder we just want to work
this all into it though and the sues
that comes together as a dough you don't
want to overwork it any more you see
let's come together just a little bit
more flour to absorb that was all there
was to it now your cookie dough's made
you've got a couple of options you can
either cook it straight away which I'm
going to do or for a better flavor and
for a better texture you can leave it in
the fridge overnight so leave it in the
fridge overnight and either cover the
bowl of cookie dough as it is and just
leave it in the fridge then tomorrow
just roll it out its balls and bake it
from cold or you can roll it out into
balls now and then chill the balls
overnight and then bake those from cold
I'm going to bake my cookies for 8 to 10
minutes but if you're baking them from
cold you need to bake them for 10 to 12
all I need to do now is scoop our 12
balls over two trays so that's six balls
on each tray then I'm going to cook them
for eight to ten minutes in an oven
that's been preheated to 180 which is
165 and then they'll be
so now is put our cookies in the oven
for eight to ten minutes and they'll be
cooked ready to cool and then ready to
eat my cookies about ten minutes and
they're out the oven and as you can see
they are gorgeous
they've just starting to brown on the
outside but there's still molten and
soft in the middle
so that is those done now I'm going to
leave them to cool slightly on the tray
and I'll leave it to cool a bit more on
a cooling rack
and then they'll be ready to eat so
that's how you make chewy chocolate chip
cookies our binders Masri this has been
pasta basics
don't forget stay safe get cooking
[Music]
you